you
this lecture is about the basic measures
for evaluation of texture retrieval
systems in this lecture we're going to
discuss how we design basic measures
through quantitatively compared to
intricate systems this is a slide that
you have seen earlier in the lecture
where we talked about the Cranfield
evaluation methodology we can have a
test cracking that consists of queries
documents and relevance judgments we can
then run two systems on these day data
sets to quantitatively evaluate their
performance and we raised the question
about which set of results is better in
the system a better or system be better
so let's now talk about how to actually
quantify their performance suppose we
have a total of ten random documents in
the collection for this query now the
relevance judgments shown on the right
did not include all the time obviously
and we have only seen three relevant
documents there but we can imagine there
are other relevant documents in charging
for this query so now intuitively we
thought that system a is better because
it did not have much noise and in
particular we have seen that among the
three results two of them are relevant
but in system B we have five results and
only three of them are relevant so
intuitively it looks like system a is
more accurate and this intuition can be
captured by a magic called precision
where we simply computer to what extent
or the retriever results are relevant if
you have 100 percent of precision that
would mean all the retrieve the
documents are relevant so in this case
the system a has a precision of two out
of three system B has
three over five and this shows that
system a is better by cuisine but we
also talked about system B might be
preferred by some other users who'd like
to retrieve as many random documents as
possible so in that case we'll have to
compare the number of relevant documents
let me read and there is another magical
recall this measures the completeness of
coverage of relevant documents in your
retrieve the result so we just assume
that there are 10 relevant documents in
the collection and here we've got two of
them in system a so the requires two out
of ten whereas system B has got the
three so it's a three out of ten now we
can see by recall system B is better and
these two measures turn out to be the
very basic measures for evaluating
search engines and they are very
important because they are also widely
used in many other task evaluation
problems for example if you look at the
applications of machine learning you
tend to see precision recall numbers
being reported and for all kinds of
tasks okay so now let's define these two
measures more precisely and these
measures are to evaluate a set of
retrieve the documents so that means
we're considering that approximation of
the set of relevant documents we can
distinguish it for cases depending on
the situation of the document a document
that can be retrieved or not retrieve
right because we're talking about the
set of result a document that can be
also relevant or non relevant depending
on whether the user thinks this is
useful document so we can now have
counts of documents in each of the four
categories we can have a to represent
the number of documents that are
retrieved and relevant B for documents
that are not retrieved but rather
etc now with this table then we can
define precision as the ratio of the
random and the retrieve the documents a
to the total number of retrieve the
documents so this is just that you know
a divided by the sum of a and C by the
sum of this column
similarly recall is defined by dividing
a by the sum of a and B so that's again
to divide a by the sum of the rule
instead of the column right so we can
see precision and recall is all focused
on looking at the a that's the number of
retrieve rewriting the documents but
we're going to use different
denominators okay so what would be an
idea without well you can either see in
the ideal case we have precision and
recall or to be 1.0 that means we have
got 100% of all the reading documents in
our results and all the results that
will return are relevant that means
there is no single not random not in the
return in reality however high record
tends to be associated with low
precision and you can imagine why that's
the case as you go down the list to try
to get as many relevant documents as
possible you tend to encounter a lot of
non-relative documents so the precision
will go down note that this set can also
be defined by a cut off in the randomest
that's why although these two measures
are defined for a set of retrieve the
documents they are actually very useful
for evaluating a ranked list they are
the fundamental measures in tax
retrieval and many other tasks we often
are interested in the precision at ten
documents for web search this means
we look at the how many documents among
the top ten results are actually
relevant now this is a very meaningful
measure because tells us how many round
a user can expect to see on the first
page of search without where they
typically shield can result so precision
and recall are the basic measures and we
need to use them to further evaluate a
search engine but there are the building
blocks really we just say that there
tends to be a trade-off between
precision recall so naturally it would
be interesting to combine them and
here's one measure that's often used
called F mesh and it's harmonic mean of
precision and recall is defined on this
slide so you can see it first computed
the inverse of our and the P here and
then it would interpret the two by using
a coefficients depending on a parameter
beta and after some transformation you
can easily see it would be of this form
and in any case it's just a combination
of precision and recall and beta is a
parameter that's often step two one
it can control the emphasis on precision
or recall when we set beta to one we end
up by having a special case of F measure
often called F 1 this is a popular
measure that's often used with a
combined precision and recall and the
formula looks very simple it's just this
here now it's easy to see that if you
have a larger proceeding or a larger
recall then F magic would be high but
what's interesting is that the trade-off
between precision and recall is captured
in the interesting way F 1 so in order
to understand that we can first look at
the the natural question why not just
combining them using a simple arithmetic
mean as I have shown here now would be
likely the most natural way of combining
them so what do you think if you want to
think more you can pause the video so
why is this not as good as everyone oh
what's the problem with this now if you
think about the arithmetic mean you can
see this is the son of multiple terms in
this case it's a sum of preceding and
recall in the case of a sum the total
value tends to be dominated by the large
values that means if you have a very
high P or very high R then you really
don't care about whether the other
battery is low so the whole sum would be
high now this is not desirable because
one hand easily have a perfectly recall
we can have a perfectly recall easy can
you imagine how it's probably very easy
to imagine that we simply retrieve all
the documents in the collection now we
have a perfect recall and this will give
us point five as the average but such a
results are clearly not very useful for
users even though the average using this
formula would be relatively higher now
in contrast you can see if one would
reward the case we're proceeding and
recall are roughly similar so it would
penalize a case where you have extremely
high value for one of them so this means
if one encodes are different the
trade-off Betina now this example shows
actually a very important methodology
here when you try to solve a problem you
might naturally think of one solution
it's a in this case it's this arithmetic
but it's important not to settle on the
solution it's important to think whether
you have other ways to combine them and
once you think about the multiple
variants it's important to analyze their
difference and then think
above which one makes more sense in this
case if you think more carefully you
will feel that if one problem makes more
sense than the simple arithmetic mean
although in other cases they may be
different than results but in this case
the arithmetic mean seems not reasonable
but if you don't pay attention to these
subtle differences you might just take
easy way to combine them and then go
ahead with it and here later you will
find that the measure doesn't seem to
work well right so this methodology is
after very important in general in
solving problems and try to think about
the best solution try to understand the
problem very well and then know why you
need this measure and why you need to
combine precision and recall and then
use that it'll guide you in finding a
good way to solve the problem
to summarize we talked about precision
which addresses the question are the
retrieve results all relevant we also
talked about the recall which addresses
the question have all the relevant
documents being retrieved these two
other two basic measures in text
retrieval evaluation they are useful for
many other tasks as well we talked about
the ethnic as a way to combine precision
and recall we also talked about the
trade-off between precision and recall
and this turns out to depend on the
users search tasks and we'll discuss
this point more in the later lecture
you
[Music]